w: https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84026853/1901-12-11/ed-1/?sp=6&q=pigeon&st=text
rel: 1
text: i The Pigeon=Post at
j|| By Adrlen De J;
IN France, during the siege of Paris,
at a time when the German
armies were surrounding the capital
and cutting off the Parisian
population from all communication
with the outside world, Monsieur
Rampont, the then Postmaster-General,
conceived the idea of intrusting
to pigeons the transmission of news,
thus giving the inhabitants a knowledge
of what was going on in the provinces.
In this way those members of
U'EGC-BRE.D
lOHjA tMJI ntfco*
lli^x a veter/sn carrier
bird
the Government who had remained
in Paris were put in touch with their
colleagues of the National Defense
who were at Tours. In order to attain
this subject a certain number of
pigeons were conveyed by balloon from
Paris to Tours, whence they were set
free, bearing messages photographically
reduced to microscopic dimensions
on very light collodion films. In
those days the despatch was rolled up
and inclosed in a quill attached to the
tail of the pigeon. By these means over
150,000 official and, at the lowest,
1,000,000 private messages entered
Paris.
The great French shipping company
known as the Compagnie Transatlantique
deserves the credit of making
the first attempts to establish what
may truly be styled the seapost.
On March 26,' 1898, the steamship
La Champagne took aboard, for the
first time, eighty pigeons. Three
batches of birds were set free at a
6hort distance from the seaboard, and
this in most stormy weather. The
older birds safely reached their cote,
while the younger ones, unable to withstand
a pelting rain-fall, dropped into
the sea ill sight of those aboard.
On the following day, and under
Ilk infavorable wenther conditions,
L; 'bampa&ne, Laving covered 3G0
miles, rescued the crew of tlie doomed
Bothnia. Seven pigeons were sent
l

w: https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85066387/1912-07-20/ed-1/?sp=5&q=Pigeon&st=text
rel: 1
text: CARRIER PIGEONS HAVE BECOME PHOTOGRAPHERS
IDFidHANKS
NOWADAYS, since there are so
many means of sending' mes
sages from one person* to an
other, pigeons, which used to have con
siderable work to do as messenger
boys, have been extremely idle and
have largely devoted themselves to
sauntering about in the air and adding
to the beauty of the landscape. But re
cently It has been found that there are
other ways of employing these birds on
Important missions besides sending
them on long distance flights as mes
senger boys. The particular new field
for pigeon activities which has been
discovered is that of photography.
These pigeon photographers were
first started on their mission in life in
Germany, where a physician had been
in the habit of sending carrier pigeons
from his office in the city to a sana
torium in the nearby country. Medicine,
pills and powders were put in a little
satchel and tied to one of the pigeons,
which carried them from the doctor's
office to the sanatorium.
At last one day a pigeon with a very
Important message was despatched
from the sanatorium to the doctor's
office, and although the bird was cele
brated for Its speed and trustworthiness
it did not appear at the end of Its
journey for a month. The same thing
later happened to another bird, and the
owners of the pigeons became very
curious to know what had become of
them. Finally it occurred to some one
that since the pigeons are able to carry
one-third of their weight it would be
possible to attach small cameras to
the birds so that when they wandered
away they would return with a record
of their wanderings on the plate of the
camera.
A special camera was made, acting
automatically, so that it would take a
picture at fixed moments. The pictures
so taken were not more than half an
inch square. For a great many years
different men experimented with these
cameras until they finally invented
something that was entirely practical.
The cameras are attached to the
breast of by straps which
pass under the wings and hold a metal
plate directly between the wings in
place. This plate has two metal hooks
on which the camera fits «o securely
that there is no danger of its being
dislodged even In flight.
The cameras weigh two and a half
ounces or less, and their size varies
never being more than two and a half
by two and a half by four laches. There
are many different sorts of cameras
some of which take panoramic views,
perpendicular and horizontal views and
other repeating cameras, besides the
more common single lens camera.
In order that the picture which the
pigeon is to take may be of any par
ticular place it Is necessary to know
Editor: I

w: https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn95073194/1911-03-29/ed-1/?sp=6&q=Pigeon&st=text
rel: 0

w: https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85066387/1909-11-20/ed-1/?sp=8&q=pigeon&st=text
rel: 1
text: Carrier Pigeon Brings Tidings
From Far-Away Alaska.
Ben Rowland of the firm of Row
land Lucier, proprietors of the
Hoffman bar, had his attention at
tracted by a white pigeon Tuesday
morning, which had fallen exhausted
in front of his place of business. The
bird made several attempts to fly,
but was unable to make any distauce,
and Mr. Rowland easily captured it.
Upon examination he discovered it to
be a carrier pigeon and about its leg
was tied with a silk cord over a piece
of buckskin a rubber nipple. Inside
the nipple, carefully rolled in an oiled
paper, was this message, written with
pen and ink on a paper:
"300 miles N. E. Dawson, Dec. 2,
1904. Bill, the old place, if note is
received O. K. come at once. Lots of
gold. Finder of this bird please noti
fy Wm. Raymond, address 2152 Mis
sion St., San Francisco, Calif. Signed:
Jim Orr."
The pigeon's leg was badly irritated
from the cord which the message was
tied on with, and the flesh had been
worn to the bone, showing that the
bird had traveled a long distance.
Mr. Rowland immediately wrote to
the party mentioned in the message,
and it is possible that a bit of history
will develop from the pigeon's visit
to Havre.
Mr. Howland had a crate built for
the bird, which has fully recovered
from the effects of its journey, and is
enjoying its new home at the HIoff
man bar.

w: https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85066387/1909-11-20/ed-1/?sp=8&q=pigeon&st=text
rel: 0

w: https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85066387/1912-08-24/ed-1/?sp=2&q=pigeon&st=text
rel: 1
text: GREAT BRITAIN'S RULER FOND OF PIGEON RACING
Everybody knows thai King George's
horse Pintadeau ran fourth In tho Derby
two weeks ago, but how many know
that the king won a big race last week.
asks the New York Sun. V_l y tew, one
may venture to say, for it was a pigeon
race.
King George, like his father before
him, is a keen pigeon racer. Indeed,
the royal raring pigeons seem to be
more successful than the royal race
horses.
Pigeon racing is a modern pastime in
the United Kingdom, dating back hardly
more than 30 years as a properly organ
ized sport. Today there is scarcely a
town or village in the country that bam
not a lon"g distance pigeon racing club
of its own. The sport is particularly
popular In the mining districts, where
the pigeon has taken the place of the
fighting bull terrier and the racing
whippet as the miners' favorite.
It was about 1893 that King George
became interested in racing and breed
ing pigeons. The late King Edward
had established a small but select loft
in Sandringham before this, but It was
not until 1899 that he was successful In
one of the pigeon classics.
This was the pigeon Grand National
from Lerwick to Sandringham. The
distance was 510 miles 1,705 yards, and
King Edward's first prize winner cov
ered the distance at a rate of 1,307
yards a minute, or nearly .5 miles an
hour. King George, then duke of York,
was third with a bird that ilew 1,252
yards a minute.
The pigeon loft at Sandringham Is
built on land taken from the beautiful
deer park which fills the landscape
from west to northwest. The famous
duck pool is situated about 500 yards
in front of the loft.
From the loft a magnificent view of
the surrounding country can be ob
tained, and herds of deer roam within
a few yards of the pigeon loft. 

w: https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83045389/1914-11-29/ed-1/?sp=38&q=pigeon&st=text
rel: 1
text: How War Has Turned Pigeons Into Photographers.
Thuuuh wireless telegraphy
and aeroplanes may have les
sened the Importance of
pigeons as dispatch-bearers in times
of war, they have by no means
ousted them Only a few days since
two pigeon dealers., one of them a
German, were prrested m London
for having in their possession sixty
"carrier and other pigeons" in con
travention of the Aliens Restriction
Act. and about the same time a Ger
man spy was arrested in Belgium
with pigeons In his possession under
circumstances which left no room
for doubt thai they were to be
used to further his nefarious ends.
Now that armies actually can
make use of trained pigeons as pho
tographers. these birds are in the
way of becoming important factors
In war A miniature Camera Is now
manufactured for this purpose. Sus
pended by straps beneath the bird's
breast, its lens is directed downward
while the flight continues, its ac
tion is, of course, automatic, gov
erned by a turning mechanism
which causes a roll of film to be ex
posed at regular internals.
The pieoon photographer flying
abovp the enemy's lines in daytime
brings home on a tiny roll of Aim a
picture record of all that was be
neath' its flight?details of the ene
my's position and strength in men
and guns
The possibilities of pigeon photog
raphy in war were recognized in
Germany some time ago. Experi
ments were made under army super
vision They were successful, views
of parks, rivers and bridges and city
streets of quite remarkable distinct
ness being developed from the ex
posed portions of fllm-rolls brought
back by the pigeon camera-carriers.
That these aerial messengers are
still capable of rendering valuable
service, chiefly between forta, Is
shown by the fact that in Germany
there are about 300,000 of these
"homing pigeons," belonging to va
rious societies, and of thla number
about 8,000 aro reserved exclusively y
for Government uga.
during the Franco-German-War of
1870-71 these pigeons played a very
Important part. At first they carried
dispatches reduced by photography
to microscopic proportions on thin
sheets of paper Later, all matter,
whether public dispatches or letters,
were printed In ordinary type trans
ferred and reduced by mtcro-photog
raphy 'o thin films of collodion mean*
uring at?out two Inches by one.
These wore so light that thousands
of dispatches, weighing less than
one gramme, could bo carried by one
pigeon
The films were rolled up and
placed in a quill, which was then
fastened lengthwise to one of the
tail feathers. Arriving in Paris, the
ntn was flattened out, and tho
printed mutter was thrown on a
screen by lantern and copied
Later sensitive paper replaced tho
screen, so that the labor of copying
was saved The cost of sending mes
sages was high, as may be Judged
from the fact that tne postal fees
on a single dispatch would often
amount to more than $500,000. Each
dispatch was repeated, sometimes
twenty or thirty times, till acknowl
edged by balloon post, which brought
back the birds for anotner Journey.
The Gormans' spared no effort to
fruBtrat these sources of informa
tion. Krhpp made special guns to
bring down (he balloons, and the
pigeons were harassed by trained
falcons.
The term "carrier ptgpons" for
these birds is now a misnomer, for
the "carrier" pigeon Is a bird of a
different type- distinguiBned by the
enormous development or the "wat
tles" round the eyes and beak. The
true "carrier" pigeon Is now more
correctly Known as the homing
pigeon, homer, or Antwerp carrier
The latter name indicates the origin
of the breed, for the Belgians are
without rivalR for their admiration
for this bird and their skill in train
ing it The home' ;h even in his na
tive land, represented .by several
races, all of whtch however, possess
the "homing" instinct. Those races,
"Les Pigeons Voyageurs," are bred
first and foremost for their powers
of flight, color and marKlng are of
no account.
The speod of some of these birds
averaged 1,250 yards a minute, but to
day this has been Increased to 1.83G
yards a minute. The speed, of course,
depends much on tho state of the
weather, In a race between Montar
giB.and Brussels, In_J876, in bright,
clear weather, all the prize-winnera
made the Journey of 270 miles in
three hours and a quarter. Over the
samo course in i$77> in thick, stormy
weather, thirty hours elapsed before
the first bird arrived.
Tiiat the homing pigeon possesses
an extrairdinarily acute sdnse of di
rection ti be no question. A
ease is on of a bird bought tn
Brussels and breMght over to Eng
land. where it remained in close con
finement for several months. Then,
one line day,' It was liberated for ex
ercise. It at once made off, and in
a few hours was back in its toft in,
Brussels, having travelled over 400
miles of country which it had never
seen before. As a rule, however,
these birds are carefully trained, the
initial stages beginning at the age
of about four months. By the end
of the first year a flight of one hun
dred miles can be successfully per*
formed. But longer flights are per-*
formed only by fully matured \rfrds.
of at least three years old. It is a
mistake, however, to suppose, as
some do. that they will fly at night
or in a fog. They roust always have
a clear view,.

w: https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83030272/1915-02-07/ed-1/?sp=40&q=pigeon&st=text
rel: 1
text: REQl'ENT references In the war
v to tho use of homing
pigeons discloses tho Interesting
fact tlul these winged messen
gers have proved themselves so useful
and so trustworthy that they cannot be
supplanted even by such up to tho min
ute devices for conveying Information
ns the Held telephone, the wireless tele
graph, the heliograph, the motorcycle
and the aeroplane, all of which are
freely used by all tho forces In the Held,
Indeed, notwithstanding the wonderful
progress that has been made In modes
of conveying Intelligence the homing
Pigeon will be more extensively used In
the present conflict than In any other
recorded In history. At least prepara
tions have been going on for years to
this end, For the first time pigeons
drilled as carefully and as persistently
ns any other part oi ,hc military estab
llshment will be tried in war-
England.
right Mrs. Harcourt, Lady Ran
From thu earliest times recorded in
history the homing pigeon's wonderful
faculty of getting home In a hurry has
been utilized In conveying messages, In
the days of the Pharoahs navigators
sailing to Egypt used to release pigeons
with messages to let tho folks know
they wero coming home. In tho seventh
century thu Arabs maintained a regular
pigeon post. Pigeons also rendered val
liable -services to tho Dutch at the slego
of Leyden In 1571.
But It took the slego of Paris during
the Franco-Prussian war forty-four
years ago to establish fully tho valuo ol
tho homing pigeon ns a messenger.
During the slego seventy-four balloons
ascended carrying pigeons to Tours and
other points. It was estimated that 800
pigeons were sent from tho provinces
to Paris during thu siege, nnd that tho
total number of messages carried by
these winged messengers would make a
library of 600 volumes. Barreswill nnd
Dagron developed a process of micro
photography by which 2.000 to 3,000
letters could be photographed on a film
two niches long nnd nn Inch and a half
wide. Tho messages were read by plac
ing them In a stereoptlcon and throwing
them on a screen. Upward of 40,000
Hii'ii messages were sent during tho
siege.
So entirely successful was the pigeon
post that one of the first things' Bis
marck did nftcr the treaty of peaco
was signed was to establish n pigeon
loft la Berlin fur the use of the army.
g Pigeons Useful
9-P
European Armies Have Developed
Birds as Bearers of Despatches
to a Remarkable Degree
By 1874 there wero military pigeon lofU
at Cologne, MeU, Strassburg and
Baden. Thu Emperor gave prizes to
eticourago the sport of pigeon racing.
Ten years' after the war thero wero
no fewer than 178 private homing
pigeon societies In Germany owning a
total of 52,240 pigeons, exclusive of the
military flocks.
Evtry nation In Europe look up the
breeding nnd training of homing pigeon
for use In tlmo of war. Italy followed
next after Franco and Germany In 1876,
At the present time Italy has sixteen
military pigeon lofts. Russia has live
military pigeon lofts. Spain has a mag-
m
nlflcent military pigeon system with
eighteen lofts scattered at advantageous
points throughout tho kingdom; l'or
tugal has fourteen military lofts, Aus
tria seven, Switzerland four, Sweden
and Denmark each have several, HoN
land has no military pigeon lofts, but tho
Government encourages the breeding
and training of homing pigeons, and the
fame of the Dutch pigeons Is world
wide, In Belgium, where pretty much
everybody keeps homing pigeons, Hy
ing them in races may be called the
national pastime.
During our own llttlo war with Spain
the homing pigeon rendered Important
service In carrying messages from the
blockading fleet In Cuban waters, Even
Japan has taken to breeding homing
pigeons for military use. Without
doubt some of these pigeons' will see
service In tho Impending campaign In
he Shantung peninsula.
Naturally, after rendering such distin
guished services during the memorable
Siege of tho French capital, the hom
ing pigeon Is especially prized In
France. It was Inspiration rather than
forethought that placed tho pigeons nt
tho service of the Government In 1871.
At that time thero were no military pig
eons, either In Franco or elsewhere. But
some citizens of Paris by the merest
chanco had some pigeons, and It
occurred to them that they might
bo utilized. They wero offered to
tho Government and promptly nc
cepted. it was six years after
tho war beforo France set nbout the or
ganization of a military pigeon system,
Now thero are twenty-eight military
ions, cnieuy aiong wo eastern boundary.
In the vicinity of tho present conflict,
with about a hundred birds stationed nt
each, besides ten thousand In Paris.
Throughout Franco thero are a hundred
thousand homing pigeons In the hands
of private owners which tho Govern
ment Is empowered by law to com
mandecr In caso of need.
Tho breeding nnd training of tho
pigeons nro under tho care of tho En
glneer Corps. Tho utmost enre. to say
nothing of affection, Is lavished on tho
birds by tho soldiers, who become very
fond of their feathered comrades, Tho
pigeon houses nro placed facing tho
northeast, -which Is opposite tho direc
tion from which tho worst rains come.
Tho averngo llock consists of about a
hundred birds, each of which receives
daily rations of an ounce and a half of
peas, beans and vetches, divided Into
three meals, with unimited mortar, salt
sand and oyster shells to aid In digestion
As soon as they can lly, which Is when
they aro about live weckB old, their
training begins, to routlnuo throughout
their useful life, which averages about
fifteen years, Great care Is taken to
prevent them from perching on any
thing when they aro taken out for their
first flights, Those that do alight on
neighboring roofs or trees are shot with
out mercy. 

text: https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85058396/1917-08-15/ed-1/?sp=3&q=Pigeon&st=text
rel: 1
text: SINCE tho days of Pharoah the
carrier pigeon has played an
Important part in warfare. De
spito tho perfection of tho wired
W and wireless telegraph and telephone,
V wig-wagging and other means of
j transmitting messages from head
quarters to flcld commanders, nothing
has yet been invented, unless it is tho
aeroplane, that makes these means of
communication absolutely safo from
I prying eyes and ears. Therefore, now
j as heretofore, the crmics of the world
i rely upon tho carrier pigeon as tin
J j safest and surest means of communl
'A I cation whoro absolute secrecy is os
i sentlal.
I While other nations of tho world,
j especial. Gormany, Italy'and Prance.
I havo devoted years of careful study
i to the broedlng and training of horn
i 1 ing pigeons, It has only been reccnt
r ly that tho United States deemed it
necessary to look for theso winged
messengers to accompany our various
expeditionary forces to France. There
arc soveral cotes of theso swift and In
telligent birds now under Army juris
diction, and already many of theso
pigeons havo been transported across
seas. Tho best known of theso cotes
is at Lansdownc, Pa., where that well
known Philadelphia sportsman, An
thony J Drcxol Blddlc, now a Captain
In tho United States Marino Corps, is
devoting much tlmo to supervising
tho training of the birds.
Record Breakers In Flock.
In this coto are many birds that
hold records for speed and distance
flights. Charles Jones, presldont of
tho National Carrier Pigeon Associa
tion, has taken a keen Interest In tho
new army flock and turned over two
of his record breaking birds, "Undo
Sam" and "Botty. "Uncle Sam"
still holds the record for an over
sea flight of 500 miles, while "Betty's"
600-inllo straightaway flight never
has been equalled.
It is generally conceded that tho
safest way to conceal a message to be
borno by a carrier pigeon is to en
fold It in a little tube that is tuckod
beneath tho bird's wing. Sometimes
tho noto is tied to its leg, or about
Its neck, but the tubo is moro popu
lar. When a homing pigeon is re
leased for its home flight It generally
soars to a tremendous altitude in
order to get its bearings. When It
has established its sense of direction
it darts away in straight flight to Its
goal, or cote. As tho bird flies bo
swiftly and at such a great altitude
tho chances of Its being shot by an
enemy sharpshooter Is romoto In ths
extreme and for this reason tho
chances for Its bringing homo tho
messago with trhlch it was entrusted
aro excellent

w: https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84022835/1919-01-16/ed-1/?sp=7&q=pigeon&st=text
rel: 1
text: TMIK records of tills war tiro replete
with stories of thi couitiKi'iMis work
performed by carrier pigeons while
saving the lives of our soldier, but
no Incident bettor Illustrates wtmt
thev haw nicomidMicd than their
uetlxitlos In tlit battle of Helium
court ami Dead Man's" hill. An en
tin' French regiment was cut otT from
comrades, completely cirniuinleil for four
lia.v.s. anil with no method of communicating word
of Iholr plight to the policial In enuinmnd. That
fourth night one of the men scouting In N Man's
Land stumbled over n dead comrade on whose
hark was strapped a hasket cnu.xlng two little
pigeons that dining the fiiur-dn hnttle had been
safeguarded by the bnd of their caielaker. Ten
derly the scout brought the basket and bliiN
back to the colonel on the hill. Lnrly the net
morning messages weie written. allled to the
legs of the birds, which. ebaiistid und dust
soiled, but Imbued with hidoiultiihle spirit and
pluck, weie liberated wafted Into the air by the
pr.iyers and wishes of the ie;:liuent, bearing with
them the only lemuliilug hope for these thousands
of men and the happiness of other thousands In
their families at home. Shortly afterward both
birds Muttered wearily Into their loft hack at
headipia.iters: and In a soitle ordered by the cen
tra I the enemy was drlen back and the icglmciit
saved.
One of the olilcers of that regiment Is now In
Washington, and lie has promised himself tint
now the wnr Is oxer he will have a loft of the
best birds he can gel. and the best care and at
tention that Is possible will be but a slight pari
.of his iucnMiro of appiedation and gratitude to
the little feathered messenger.., to xvhom he and
bis comnides owe theli s.
These little birds h:i. been used In almost
every conceivable wa.x to get xxord back to the
leserves or to headquarters xvhen all other
means of communication failed.
I'ari'ier pigeons are not only used by the In
fantry and the navy, but are used fieiptently by
the air urn lee. At the Dunkirk hydroplane sta
tion they have an enviable record. There has not
been a single accident to a plane, nor the loss of
a plane In combat, where word of the occurrence.
xviih not brought hack by the pigeons which are
a part of the equipment of the planes. Instances
of the value of the messengers could be multi
plied without number, but It Is more Interesting
to recount how these birds are bred, reared and
housed under xvar conditions.

w: https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn87062011/1917-10-30/ed-1/?sp=1&q=military+messenger&st=text
rel: 0

w: https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn96060002/1913-11-10/ed-1/?sp=3&q=pigeon+military+messenger&st=text
rel: 1
text: Carrier Pigeons in
the French Army
It might he imagined that the pre
s'■' t eia if t! e aeroplane and the
wir> -s ‘e!. graph has no use for
the swift and faithful winged mes
sengers which r-inb red such valu
able serv :n the Franco-German
and other w.us. Many persons, in
deed. are convinced that carrier
pigeons now serve only for the
an us- me: if a few old fogy si»orts
men.
i h- si1 a are quite erroneous
1 1-e attent on dev t* m carrier pig
ns hy the governments of F.urope.
atid es;., uilly hy that of France,
si that tin- s- rvlces rendered hy
rds Paris have
forgott- n. and that at
h as- a.s gr- to a r• anre is yet
i-: 1 e -upon •hen: a- iipoll the mys
terious an I rrath- Hertzian waves.
At in-sent. Fra maintains twen
ty gilt military p-ge m houses, dis
tributed among the f rtifi-cations os
1”■' tally along the eastern frontier.
I lo .-e establishments, which are in
charge of the engineer corps, are
d 'vo'i-ii to r• diag and training
c irri' r pige.ms.
have fv. 1 in btaining spe
i ••rtr.-si >n to v i-;t the military pig.
m ir> s .*f Vaugirard, near the
"t" up ms of Paris, where the
tn of !;ng atni training was
•xpS:i::t* tic* l>> the command
ing tfi t. The reader will be sur
r to b-arn how much care is
lavished the birds. The sol
d rs love the pretty little creatures.
l follow tie r educational progress
with keen interest.
At \n ig.rard. as elsewhere, the
pigeon ileuses are placed on the
»f of a ’.uitding. and each is diviil
1 nto two compartments by an
a ley ‘I h** flour is e mpised of plast
er. i-overe 1 with a layer of dry and
moderately fine sand, which protects
til,, tee: of he birds from fecal de
filement. The water vessels are made
small in order to minimize the quan
tity of water which the birds scat
ter in bulling but whenever it is
i ossihle to have a supply of running
water on the roof of the pigeon
i ons.- e mm Y mis basins are there
ms alp j. in which the birds can
bathe freely and thus rid themselves
of vermin.
In all eases abundant ventilation
is provide.i. about 35 cubic feet of
space being usually allotted to each
pair of adult pigeons and 9 eulrc
feet to each young bird. In order
to facilitate the circulation of air.
the roof of the pigeon h ns? is
never plastered, except in moun
tainous or other cold regions.
The orientation of the house is a
mat;, r of importance. Nearly all
of tit. French p aeon houses face
approximately north-11 rtheast, or in
v direction opposite to most rain
storms. The administration takes
care not to place pigeon houses
near telegraph or telephone lines,
which might injure birds, striking
them n flight. Large trees and
high buildings are also objectionable
because they afford convenient
.perches r pigeons willing to shirk
their fly nir excejses. The cages are
inelos. d in glass sashes in order to
he out rodents, and neighboring
i h mttcys are covered with wire net-
ting to prevent young pigeons from
faling into them. All of the mili
tary pigeon houses are connected
bv telephone with the offices of the
engineer corps.
As a rule, each pigetn house con
tains luo pigeons ready for mobiliza
tion. To niaintaTi this effective
force requires one or two compart- 1
ments o' Lie adult pigeons, a com
partment of 2«>t» young birds of the
year two detention pens (one for
each sex), which are used only at
a certain season, an infirmary facing
tile south, and a laboratory for the
reproduction of dispatches.
The denizens of a pigeon house
are selected from birds four or five
weeks old. wh'ch have not hitherto
bfr their natal houses. They are
first subjt cted to four or five days’
observati n in order to ascertain tha’
they are sound and to supervise
their feeding. They are then encour
_ aged to emerge from the house and
fly about by allowing them to escape
voluntarily, without frightening them,
so that they will recctgnize the en
trance door. This is done about 3 p. m.
daily. If the birds were driven out
they would probably fly far and fail
to return. When adult birds are ad
ded to the colony the preliminary
training must bo greatly prolonged.
The newcomers must first be penned
up for a considerable t me. then mat
ed with older residents, and finally
prevented from flying during the
entire season by shortening five or
six principal feathers of the left
wing by about two inches. At the
moulting season the amputated feath
ers are replaced by whole ones. By
th s time the birds have become ac
customed to their new home. The
effective or mobile corps, which in
May consists of 100 pigeons from 2
to 8 years Id is increased in Octob
er by the addition of 6 reserve
birds and 23 young birds, IS months
old. which have taken part In two
train'ng campaigns. The winter col
ony. usually reduced to 130 birds by
inevitable losses, produces 200 young
for the next season's training.
The i* geo ns are fed on mixeii
"•ans. ;**as and vetches, which have
been gathered a year. The Individ
ual daily ration consists of ab ut l'a
ounces of this mixture, divided into
three meals, given at dawn, noon
and 3 m The juigeons are also
provided with clay, old mortar fine
river sand, salt and egg shells or
oyster shells, ground and mixed In
equal parts. This mixture, which is
called "salted earth.” is left perman
ently in the cages.

w: https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn96094905/1917-10-30/ed-1/?sp=1&q=military+messenger&st=text
rel: 0

w: https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85032018/1897-11-03/ed-1/?sp=7&q=pigeon+military+messenger&st=text
rel: 1
text: On the round-topped hill at the north
end of Mare Island, the great naval sta
tion of this coast, stands a gayly-painted
little cottage, which can be seen from
any point in the great bay of San Pablo.
Inquiring strangers are surprised when
they learn that this little house is the
home of over 100 finely-bred carrier
pigeons belonging to Uncle Sam's navy,
and that the red and white stripes which
decorate the sides are for the purpose
of enabling the little messengers to
qulcfkly distinguish their home station
from a distance.
But why should the navy spend hun
dreds of dollars each year to support a
fancy breed of pigeons, the stranger
asks?
In spite of the dire prophecies of a few
malcontents it is not probable that our
fair country will see another great civil
.war, but it Is from beyond our shores
that the enemy will come, if war should
break out. In this event it will be the
duty of our navy to patrol the coast
lines of the Atlantic and Pacific, and as
the outer line of defense ward off the
invader's fleets. If, while steaming up
and down the coast one or two hundred
miles off shore, our guardian fleet should
sight the enemy, it would be of the ut
most Importance to communicate at once
with the authorities on shore. Various
inventors have claimed the discovery of
a wireless telegraph through the water,
but none has yet succeeded; to send In
a vessel with the news would weaken
the fleet in the hour of battle, but If the
fleet carries a few homing pigeons accu
rate messages may be sent in from the
ship3 to the pigeon loft, where telegraph
and telephone connections with the cities
adjacent and with headquarters at
Washington are available. Thus, the
important part that the homing pigeon
may play in the next war may be seen
at a glance.
This use of pigeons as messengers
from ships to shore Is not new, for we
have records which show that it was
practiced by the ancient Egyptians and
by the Venetians in the middle ages,
but their modern use dates from the
siege of Paris in 1871, when the Pari
sians, hemmed in on every side, used the
birds to communicate with the outer
world. After the close of that war
French military authorities used the
pigeons to communicate with the Island
of Corsica, and from this it was only a
step to sending them out on ships to
carry messages to the shore. The French
have extended this service until they
now have 4,000 birds trained for war
service In all directions.
But our own navy is always conserva
tive, and it was not until 1893 that ex
periments began on American ships. A
few officers at the Naval Academy at
Annapolis, under the lead of Prof. Henri
Marion, who had seen the. value of the
pigeon service in France, established a
loft at that place at their own expense,
and the birds were sent out on the train
ing ships and sent in from points a sea
over distances of from 100 o 250 miles.
But it remained for newspaper enter
prise to settle the question of the value
of pigeons for sea service, and in 18D4
the Petit Journal of Paris, In order to
settle a controversy with the Figaro,
chartere a steamer and sent several
thousand homing pigeons from different
parts of the European coast to sea. The
editor of the Figaro had claimed that
the pigeons would be useless 100 miles
from shore and would seassick In rough
weather, but the results of the trial
proved very different from these proph
esies. The pigeons were liberated from
the steamer in batches of several hun
dred at 90, 125, and 125 miles, and a re
markably large number, over 90 per
cent., reached their home lofts. The best
record was that of a French pigeon from
Tours, which made 465 miles In fifteen
hour3.

w: https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84022374/1901-07-17/ed-1/?sp=2&q=pigeon+military+messenger&st=text
rel: 1
text: CARRIER PIGEONS.
Where They are Used, and What They
are Capable of Doing.
“The New Popularity of the Carrier
Pigeon,” is the title of an article by George
Ethelbert Walsh, which appeared in St.
Nicholas.
Both in war and peace the carrier pigeon
has won new laurels in the past year, and
its popularity as a well-bred pet and
domestic messenger has become as great
as its usefulness as a carrier of war de
spatches where telegraph and telephone
lines are not established. That so inno
cent a creature as the dove-like carrier
should be selected for important war pur
poses, and taken into the service for fur
thering the bloody conflicts of modern
armies seems out of keeping with the
aims nf nature and an abuse of man’s
power.
The pigeon is eminently a peace-loving
bird and its nature is so different from
those of the screaming eagle and falcon
that as an emblem of war it should be a
total failure. Nevertheless the timid bird
has served armies in times of need and is
cultivated for its practical war usefulness
to an extent never dreamed of for either
the falcon, or eagle. In a sense it is the
war bird of the day.
The pigeon post at Durban, in South
Africa, was the beginning of the pigeon
experiments conducted in recent cam
paigns between the English and the Boers,
and scores of messages were carried from
one part of the English army to another
by means of the birds. Colonel ilassard
of the Royal Engineers, a staff-officer at
the Cape, had made a life study of the
carrier pigeons, and before the war broke
out he had established pigeon posts be
tween most of the btleagured cities.
From Ladysmith, Kimberly and Mafe
king, pigeons early in the sieges regularly
brought messages from the English sol
diers cooped up in the towns. Sir George
White’s first message from Ladysmith whs
carried by a pigeon, and this means of
communicating with the outside world
contiuued until the number of birds in
the city was exhausted.
It was only p short time before the out
break of the war in South Africa that the
English government had decided to es
tablish a service of carrier pigeons. In
the navy, pigeon posts were recognized
means of carrying information as early as
1896, and there are over a thousand birds
recorded on the books of the royal navy.
The first naval loft was at Portsmouth
and now there are two others. In the
English army the posts have been con
fined almost exclusively to the Cape, where
the nature of the country makes the home
pigeon service of more value than in Eng
land.
The development of the war homing
pigeon service throughout Europe ha6
been more rapid than elsewhere, and army
posts support large numbers of them.
Strict laws are made to protect those in
private lofts. As a great military camp,
Europe looks upon tne carrier pigeon as a
mun tn t ho cam nt it if nAf li/.l/l /4
strict military control. In Germany, for
instance, every pigeon raised by private
breeders must be registered, and the pigeon
cann >t be taken out of the country or sold
without permission from the military
authorities.
In the event of a war, the German
authorities reserve the right to claim and
take possession of every carrier pigeon in
the land. In addition to this, every fort
ress and camp on German soil has its
pigeon service and over ten thousand dol
lars is appropriated annually for the sup
port of this service. There a^e upwards
of ten thousand pigeons belonging to the
war department, and every bird is care
fully trained and tested.
The United States military and naval
authorities have approved of the pigeons
as aids to the regular telegraphic means of
communication, and there are several
posts established in the We6t and along
the Atlantic coast. But on the whole this
country depends more upon private
breeders for its supply of carrier pigeons
than upon the birds already in the service
of the army or navy.
Our great distance by sea from all other
powerful nations makes it unnecessary to
arrange for the services of carrier pigeons
as the European countries have done.
There is little chance of any foreign army
invading this country and destroying the
railroad and telegraph lines connecting
the big cities. Pigeon breeding and train
ing have therefore been carried on in the
United States more in the interests of
peace and pleasure. There are hundreds
of enthusiastic owners in every state of
the Union, and probably in no country,
has the work of rearing the birds been
attended to with greater intelligence and
success.
